Enhancements and some bug fixes after initial feedback. (#57)
FunctionLab/selene: docs/source/overview/cli.md

- [Overview](#Overview)
- [Operations](#Operations)
- [General configurations](#General-configurations)
- [Model architecture](#Model-architecture) 
- [Train](#Train)
    - [Expected outputs for training](#Expected-outputs-for-training)
- [Evaluate](#Evaluate)
    - [Expected outputs for evaluation](#Expected-outputs-for-evaluation)
- [Analyze sequences](#Analyze-sequences)
    - [Prediction on sequences](#Predict-on-sequences)
    - [Variant effect prediction](#Variant-effect-prediction)
    - [_In silico_ mutagenesis](#In-silico-mutagenesis)
- [Sampler configurations](#Sampler-configurations)
    - Samplers for training (and evaluation, optional):
        - [Random positions sampler](#Random-positions-sampler)
        - [Intervals sampler](#Intervals-sampler)
        - [Multiple-file sampler](#Multiple-file-sampler)
    - File samplers for evaluation:
        - [BED file sampler](#BED-file-sampler)
        - [Matrix file sampler](#Matrix-file-sampler)

## Overview

> Selene's CLI accepts configuration files that are composed of 4 main (high-level) groups:

Reviewer: Will be nice to have some more info about the config files format, for example, "CLI accepts configuration files in [YAML] (link to outside(?) page about it) format".

lr: 0.01
```

Note that there should not be any commas at the end of these lines.
- `random_seed`: Set a random seed for `torch` and `torch.cuda` (if using CUDA) for reproducibility.
- `output_dir`: The output directory to use for all operations. If no `output_dir` is specified, Selene assumes that the `output_dir` is specified in all relevant function-type values for operations in Selene. (More information on what function-type values are in [later sections](#A-note-for-the-following-sections).)
- `create_subdirectory`: If True, creates a directory within `output_dir`   with the name formatted as `%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S`---the date/time when Selene was run. (This is only applicable if `output_dir` has been specified.)
- `lr`:  The learning rate. If you use our [CLI script](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/selene_cli.py), you can pass this in as a command-line argument rather than having it specified in the configuration file. 

## Model architecture
For all operations, Selene requires that you specify the model architecture, loss, and optimizer as inputs.

### Expected input class and methods
There are two possible formats you can use to do this:

> - single Python file: We expect that most people will start using Selene with model architectures in this format. In this case, you implement your architecture as a class and include 2 static methods, `criterion` and `get_optimizer` in the same file. 

Reviewer: I found that explanation a little confusing. Perhaps it would be nice to add a link to an example file right here? I think just linking https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/models/deepsea.py might be helpful

    report_stats_every_n_steps: 32000,
    save_checkpoint_every_n_steps: 1000,
    n_validation_samples: 64000,
    n_test_samples: 960000,
    cpu_n_threads: 32,
    use_cuda: True,
    data_parallel: True,
    logging_verbosity: 2,
    checkpoint_resume: False
}
```

#### Required parameters
- `batch_size`:  Number of samples in one forward/backward pass (a single step).
- `max_steps`: Total number of steps for which to train the model. 
- `report_stats_every_n_steps`: The frequency with which to report summary statistics. 

#### Optional parameters
- `save_checkpoint_every_n_steps`: Default is 1000. The number of steps before Selene saves a new checkpoint model weights file. If this parameter is set to `None`, we will set it to the same value as `report_stats_every_n_steps`.
- `n_validation_samples`: Default is `None`. Specify the number of validation samples in the validation set. If `None`
   - and the data sampler you use is of type `selene_sdk.samplers.OnlineSampler`, we will by default retrieve 32000 validation samples.
   - and you are using a `selene_sdk.samplers.MultiFileSampler`, we will use all the validation samples available in the appropriate data file.

> - `n_test_samples`: Default is `None`. Specify the number of test samples in the test set. If `None`

Reviewer: Since you have sampler info later, it is a bit confusing on how the test sampler will work. Maybe add a link that would bring the reader to the bottom of the page? 
I guess I would add here that if you do not have a test partition, you will train on everything? (if that is true)

> - `n_test_samples`: Default is `None`. Specify the number of test samples in the test set. If `None`

Reviewer: Also, in the documentation, you have different combinations of the samplers. Is there a reason for it? http://selene.flatironinstitute.org/selene.html#trainmodel

Author: What do you mean by different combinations of samplers? (I've updated the TrainModel docs in this PR to match what I've written in `cli.md`, so I might have addressed this already)

Reviewer: In explanation to what is *n_test_samples* in the documentation you mention None+ IntervalsSampler, None+RandomSampler, None+MatFileSampler. Here you explain what happens with None+OnlineSampler and None+MultiFileSampler

    - and the sampler you specified has no test partition, it is assumed that you will not be evaluating your trained model using the `evaluate` method available in `selene_sdk.TrainModel`. (i.e. `evaluate` should not be one of the operations in the `ops` list)

>     - and the sampler you use is of type `selene_sdk.samplers.OnlineSampler` (and the test partition exists), we will retrieve 640000 test samples.

Reviewer: I could not find OnlineSampler on this page, only in the documentation. I think if you mention it here it might be a good idea to add some info in the sampler section too.

    - and the sampler you use is of type `selene_sdk.samplers.MultiFileSampler`, we will use all the test samples available in the appropriate data file. 
- `cpu_n_threads`: Default is 1. The number of OpenMP threads used for parallelizing CPU operations in PyTorch.
- `use_cuda`: Default is False. Specify whether CUDA GPUs are available for torch to use during training.  
- `data_parallel`: Default is False. Specify whether multiple GPUs are available for torch to use during training.
- `logging_verbosity`: Default is 2. Possible values are `{0, 1, 2}
`. Sets the logging verbosity level:
  - 0: only warnings are logged
  - 1: information and warnings are logged
  - 2: debug messages, information, and warnings are all logged
 - `checkpoint_resume`: Default is `None`. If not `None`, you should pass in the path to a model weights file generated by `torch.save` (and can now be read by `torch.load`) to resume training. 
 
#### Additional notes

> An important thing to observe about the contents of `train_model`: the [documentation for the `TrainModel` class](http://selene.flatironinstitute.org/selene.html#trainmodel) in `selene_sdk` shows that we are missing a number of arguments needed to instantiate the class.

Reviewer: Might need to rephrase this. For example, 'attentive readers might have noticed that in the documentation there are more arguments that are required to instantiate the class. This is because they are assumed to be carried through/retrieved from other parts to ensure consistency...'

3) _In silico_ mutagenesis: _In silico_ mutagenesis (ISM) involves computationally "mutating" every position in the sequence to every other possible base (DNA and RNA) or amino acid (protein sequences) and examining the consequences of these "mutations". For ISM, Selene outputs the model predictions for the reference (original) sequence along with each of the mutated sequences. 
 
For variant effect prediction and _in silico_ mutagenesis, a number of scores can be computed using the predictions from the reference and alternate alleles. You may select 1 or more of the following as outputs:
- `predictions` (output the predictions for each variant, as described above)
- `diffs` (difference scores): The difference between alt and ref predictions.
- `abs_diffs` (absolute difference scores): The absolute difference between alt and ref predictions.
- `logits` (log-fold change scores): The difference between `logit(alt)` and `logit(ref)` predictions.
You'll find examples of how this is specified in the [variant effect prediction](#Variant-effect-prediction) and [_in silico_ mutagenesis](#In-silico-mutagenesis) sections.

> In all `analyze`-related operations, we ask that you specify 2 configuration keys. One will always be the `analyze_sequences` key, which we will explain generally here. The other one is dependent on which of the 3 sub-operations you use and will be explained in the appropriate subsection below. 

Reviewer: I would remove the 'explain generally here' and just proceed without noting when you will talk about them. You are talking about those in a consecutive manner, so I do not think it would cause a confusion. 
```suggestion
In all `analyze`-related operations, we ask that you specify 2 configuration keys. One will always be the `analyze_sequences` key and the other one is dependent on which of the 3 sub-operations you use - `prediction`, `variant_effect_prediction` or `in_silico_mutagenesis`. 

### Analyze sequences

```

- `n_features`: Optional, default is None. If `targets_avail` is True, must specify `n_features`, the total number of features (classes).

#### Matrix file sampler
The matrix file sampler loads a dataset from a matrix file.

An example configuration for a matrix file sampler:
```YAML
sampler: !obj:selene_sdk.samplers.file_samplers.MatFileSampler {
    filepath: /path/to/data.mat,
    sequence_key: sequences,
    targets_key: targets,
    random_seed: 123,
    shuffle: True,
    sequence_batch_axis: 0,
    sequence_alphabet_axis: 1,
    targets_batch_axis: 0
}
```

##### Parameters
- `filepath`: The path to the file from which to load the data. 
- `sequence_key`: The key for the sequences data matrix.
- `targets_key`: Optional, default is `None`. The key to the targets data matrix.
- `random_seed`: Optional, default is 436. Sets the random seed for sampling.
- `shuffle`: Optional, default is `True`. Shuffle the order of the samples in the matrix before sampling from it.
- `sequence_batch_axis`: Optional, default is 0. Specify the batch axis for the sequences matrix.
- `sequence_alphabet_axis`: Optional, default is 1. Specify the alphabet axis.

> - `targets_batch_axis`: Optional, default is 0. Specify the batch axis for the targets matrix.

Reviewer: At the very end, as a reader, I would like to see an expanded YAML file with all those parts that were just explained being used. I know you have a link in the beginning, but having it here would make it easier to comprehend as a whole

- [Evaluate with test matrix file](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/config_examples/evaluate_test_mat.yml)
- [Get predictions from trained model](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/config_examples/get_predictions.yml)
- [_In silico_ mutagenesis](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/config_examples/in_silico_mutagenesis.yml)
- [Variant effect prediction](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/config_examples/variant_effect_prediction.yml)

There are also various configuration files associated with the Jupyter notebook [`tutorials`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/tutorials) and [`manuscript`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/manuscript) case studies that you could use as a starting point.

## Operations
Every file should start with the operations that you want to run. 

```YAML
ops: [train, evaluate, analyze]
```
The `ops` key expects one or more of `[train, evaluate, analyze]` to be specified as a list. In addition to the general & model architecture configurations described in the next 2 sections, each of these operations has an expected set of configurations:

> - `train`: `train_model` (see [Train](#Train)) and `sampler` (see [Samplers used for training](#Samplers-used-for-training))

Author: Thanks! I have gone through and tested all the links
